SD Access

Network Automation
Network assurance and analytics - prediction of network and security events.
Host mobility - mobility for wired and wireless clients.
Identity services - provides contextual info required for users and
devices connecting to the network.
Policy enforcement - access is granted based on identity instead of IP.
Secure segmentation - segmentation based on guest, corporate, facilites and IoT
Network virtualization - leverage physical infrastructure supports many VRFs

Management Layer - Cisco DNA Center
Controller Layer - DNA Center - Network Control Platform, Network Data Platform

Underlay Network - Physical network.
	Manual Underlay - Created manually without Cisco DNA Center.
	Automated Underlay - Create and managed by Cisco DNA Center.

Overlay Network - SD-Access Fabric
	Made up of 
		Control Plane - LISP - based on endpoint identifier and routing locator.
		Remote designations on routers is stored in remote mapping database.
		Distributed Anycast Gateway, VN Extranet, Fabric Wireless
		called map server
		
		Data Plane - VXLAN
		
		Policy Plane - Cisco TrustSec - tags created and assigned to authenticated
		groups of users or end devices. Provide support for VRFs, Network address
		independent group based policies.
	
	* Mem palace
	SD-Access Fabric Roles
		Control plane node - Provides mapping. EID to RLOC
		Fabric border node - Connect external layer3 to SDA fabric
			Internal border - connects to known areas of organization
			Default border - connects to unknown areas outside organization
			Internal + default border - connects to transit areas of the company.
		Fabric edge node - Connects APs and wireless endpoints to SDA fabric.
		Fabric WLAN controller - connects fabric devices and APs and wireless endpoints to the SDA fabric.
		Intermediate nodes - underlay services. do not provide any SD-Access fabric role.
		
		
		
Memory Palace - Sliding doors, Front Desk, Bookshelves (to the left), Computer table,
Computer tables near circulation desk, Computers, Circulation Desk, Small Desk 1, Small Desk 2,
Small Desk3, Study room closest to window, second study room, third study room, table closest to study room,
table closest to window, second table closest to window, table closest to front desk

Sliding Doors 
"Sliding doors open to parallel VRF tunnels, separate routing maps."

Front desk
Clerks assign rooms by pool, each has a switch.

Bookshelves
Books shelved by policy—same tag, same rule set.

Computer table
Each desk has same gateway—login works everywhere, instantly.

Left off on Controller layer
























Front Desk (SDAccess - Components)
Controller Layer - Conductor robot syncing 4 glowing management subsystems
Cisco NCP - Network Construction Platform
Cisco NDP - Network Detective Platform
Cisco ISE - Identity Services Engine

Book Shelf to left. (SDAccess - Nodes)
Control Plane Node	Wizard wearing "controller hat" mapping EID(Endpoint Identity Descriptor) to RLOC (Routing Locator of Connection) in glowing atlas
Fabric Border Node	Gatekeeper robot next to gigantic BORDER sign connecting outside L3 world to fabric
Fabric Edge Node	APs and endpoints boarding a glowing “Edge Node” bus drive off edge of cliff.
Fabric WLAN Controller	Conductor orchestrating APs and fabric switches
Intermediate Nodes	Stone tunnels forwarding data quietly—underlay only, no fabric intelligence


SD-WAN Edge Device	A robot edge courier truck rolling on WAN cable wheels, delivering traffic smartly 
between branches
vManage	A glowing touchscreen labeled “vManage” lets you manage policies, devices, and templates visually
vSmart Controller	A glowing brain server labeled “Smart Controller” distributes routes and policies to all 
edge devices
vBond Orchestrator	A robot bond orchestrator checking digital passports to securely onboard edge devices into the network
vAnalytics	A floating AI named Analytics projecting trend lines and insights above the console

Re-do 




